My mom is the antithesis of tread
anything. I remember one day I said to
my mom, "Can we get some KFC?" And then
my mom was like, "We can't afford KFC."
Then my mom said, "You know what, honey?
I'm going to make you KFC." And I was
like, "What? You can make KFC?" She's
like, "I can make KFC." I was like,
"That's not possible." I was like, "If
if people could make KFC, everyone would
make KFC.
You're telling me KFC doesn't only come
from the Colonel? How do you have the
secret?" And we went into the kitchen
and then she made and then she fried it.
And then we there and I was like, "Wow,
my mom made KFC." And I'll never and
I'll never forget I ate it. And then I I
looked at her and I was like, "This
is not KFC."
Some of my issues that I deal with in
therapy are probably because of that
moment. You know, when they say you like
you lose trust in your parents. I looked
at this woman and I was like
I was like, "Why would you lie to me?
Why would you say you can make KFC when
you can't make KFC?" And then she looked
at me and then like and then I started
doubting myself cuz I was like why would
you think your mother can make KFC? If
she could make KFC, she would have
opened KFC.
This is What Now with Trevor Noah.
All right, this is going to be a fun
one. I know
this is this is one of those what I call
like landmine conversations.
Yes.
Because
everything you say can and will be used
against you in a court of law. But it's
but it's probably it's probably my
favorite type of conversation to have
like my my favorite type of topic
because when you when you say tradife so
I've been saying that to everyone. I you
know my friends will be like oh what are
you doing on the podcast? I say we're
going to be talking about trades. Some
people don't know what it is at all. And
then I have to explain it. I go trad
traditional wife. And then as soon as I
describe the videos, everyone knows what
I'm talking about. I say it's, you know,
these women who are they're dressed in
like really old school style or dressed
up vibes, but then they're cooking.
They're preparing like everything from
scratch. And then everyone's like, "Oh
yeah," and then they start listing off
their favorite ones. And uh yeah, I'm
I'm I'm excited to talk about it because
uh I don't know what you're going to
say. Oh, you you don't even have a
feeling about where I
No, I No, I'll be honest with you. I
don't I don't because this is one of
those topics where you could go either
way.
I know. I'm nervous because I I'm afraid
to offend people, which I never am like
in life. That's why I couldn't be a trad
cuz I'm rude.
Oh, fantastic.
Yeah. I'm I don't want any of my friends
who are tradish
to be upset with me.
Wait, so do you think some of the people
in your life are trades?
No, but are they actually tread wives or
do you think they have traits that you
would associate with a tread wives?
I think they have a lot of the traits.
I think they are living Oh my god, you
already get me in trouble cuz now my
friend
Oh, no. I just want to know. No. Okay,
so I I want to know how many of those
traits you see in people before you say
they are or are not a tread.
I know. I'm Trevor. Can you see how
careful?
I can see I've never seen you like this,
by the way.
I know. That's why I'm like it's I
wanted to do the conversation, but I've
been like, "Oh god, I don't want to."
Okay. So, I think there are the traits.
Yeah. But they wouldn't necessarily
embrace the label and then because, you
know, I grew up very churchy and very
Christian. I know people who are like
straight up man is the head of the
household. I'm here to honor him and
honor God and raise my children.
That all sounds good to me. Keep going.
Keep going.
Raise my children.
This is fantastic.
They call their husband like my mom
actually used to call my dad my lord and
master to piss off my grandmother.
That's a family fact about you.
To piss off your your I mean
Yeah. Yeah. ironically, but like you
know I I especially being like of
African descent, even the women who are
not who have jobs and all of that embody
the tradife thing. You know, they'll be
like my husband is the head of the
household. That's the world I come from.
Okay.
Um and I don't want to offend those
women cuz I think there's a way we can
speak about them and say they don't have
autonomy and they're victims or they're
v like we either make them victims or
villains and I think it's a bit more
complicated. And then I have my own
personal view on it, how I've chosen to
live. How how far do you think you are
away from tread wife or how close do you
think you are to trade wife?
You know what? It's so funny. I have a
friend who is like the opposite of a
trad wife. So she
What does What does that mean?
She's not traditional and she's not a
wife.
But then how are you a trad wife?
Well, she's like she she doesn't even
have any of the labels. Like she she
she's child-free. She's child free by
choice.
She speaks her mind and she's she comes
from a long line of matriarchs. She came
around this is when I was pregnant with
Obie. She came by the apartment and I
was doing something and I did something
for Louis and she was like, "So, is this
how you keep a man?" And I was like,
"What are you talking about?" She was
like, "You're being so nice and girly."
And I'm like, "I'm not nice to him cuz I
think I'm a mean wife, right?" And she
was like, "No, you're being I've never
seen this side of you." So, it was it
was and I think about that a lot because
what if what if you're secretly a tread
wife and you don't know it.
I don't cook. So, I think that takes me
out of the equation.
It is one of the biggest factors. And
it's not just cooking. It's cooking like
everything from scratch. Like from
scratch. Scratch.
Yeah. Obie says to me, "Mommy, what are
we going to order tonight?"
And then he goes, "Delivery." And my mom
is like, "You have ruined this child."
So like I don't cook cuz I find it very
laborious.
And obviously I work, but ironically a
lot of wives are doing work by that.
Like I work outside of the home.
You're right. Right.
But I think they're actually doing work
inside the home cuz they monetize it by
putting on Instagram. So a lot of
contradictions.
That's why I'm excited to have the
conversation because like you know if
you look at it as as a topic in
isolation. It's it seems like a like a
really small one. It's just like oh what
is a trad wife?
Why is this thing blowing up everywhere?
Why do people want to be a trad wife or
why do people idolize
or hate tradives?
Yeah.
And then it gets into the larger topics
of like what does this say about us as a
society as as a whole? Um and our guest
today is the perfect person to to have
this conversation with, right? Because
um an I mean you know her writing.
Yeah. I'm a fan I'm a fan of her
newsletter.
Yeah. No, she she's fantastic. So Ann
Helen Peterson is a um she's an author.
She is a writer who you know she has
Substacks. She wrote for BuzzFeed. She
also writes for L magazine. She's got
these fantastic articles that cover
everything from politics to celebrity
culture, gossip, everything we deal with
in the world essentially that's
interesting she looks at. and she's been
spending a ton of time on the tread wife
movement. So, it's not just her
experience, but like her insight into
this world is is is really really
fascinating. And actually, maybe from
your side, you can help me understand
this. Like, how far would you say a trad
wife is from what people would quote
unquote call a regular wife? And I'm I'm
I have all the quotes up for this entire
episode for anybody who's going to come
after me. Everything is quotes from now
on. All right. Nothing I say is is my
voice or my my But yeah. Um Ann, welcome
to the podcast. What would you say is
like a like a a trad wife versus a
regular wife?
Yeah. You know, well, first of all, I'm
glad that we're coming into this with
the ambivalence that we have, right?
Like there is so much contradiction.
There is so much complexity. And I think
I often have conversations with people
who are like, "Oh, obviously these women
are evil, right? or like they're the the
the you know or they're ideal, right? So
there's just not a lot of in between.
So the way I think of it is there's
actually like these bigger buckets of
wives that we can think about. Buckets
of treadwives. There are I think the
like the OGs which are absolutely women
who are deeply deeply invested in either
evangelical Christianity and its vision
specifically of the the future of
America. Uh-huh.
And I would also put a little caveat on
there and say like white evangelical
Christianity
and
and there some Mormons are kind of in
that bucket. So a a very famous trod
wife who has never ever claimed the the
moniker tread wife is Ballerina Farm who
has been in the news a lot lately.
Ballerina Farm is the moniker the handle
for an Instagram account that is run by
this woman named Hannah. She is married.
She was a ballerina. Thus the ballerina
part, but she was married to or she is
married to the son of the founder of
JetBlue Airlines.
Oh.
And they're Mormon and they have, I
believe, eight kids. She also is a
pageant queen and recently competed in
it's like Mrs. America when they're
married. Mrs. America uh very shortly
after giving birth to her most recent
kid. But so she like the aesthetic there
is very aspirational.
That's so so ballerina farm. So I've
gone I've gone on a deep dive in this
like my Instagram algorithm is trash
now. My Tik Tok algorith I just need to
start brand new accounts just so you
know
because everything that I've now like
researched for this conversation has led
me down a deep now. All my all my
explore page is is like random white
women in the middle of nowhere milking a
cow for their children's breakfast
cereal
or like coming to like they're putting
together like their homeschool
elements for like 10 kids.
And then there are people who just want
to live like a 50s housewife
and that is different right like they do
not have the religious component. They
do not see this as God's plan for the
world. they are not necessarily invested
in the more like white supremacy
components of this, but they would like
to spend all of their time doing things
in the domestic sphere. So that includes
homesteading, right? And like the the
aesthetic of homesteading that's very
popular.
That includes not working for pay,
right? Um, and I think that that is the
part that people are actually attracted
to who
somehow who find themselves fascinated
by these accounts and find themselves
continually going back or like why do I
keep following Ballerina Farm if her
life is so distant from mine?
Because I think there is some sort of
fantasy about,
well, what if I didn't have to do all of
the things all of the time? what if I
got to focus on these parts of being a
mother, of being a partner, of being a
person in the world that felt fulfilling
to me. So, that's that's a different
sort though. And also like the
stay-at-home girlfriends which are
oftentimes linked into or put into this
bucket. Yeah.
People who like they tape for Tik Tok
especially like
here is my life as a stay-at-home
girlfriend and it's like making chia
smoothies and like doing Pilates and
they're not even married. Like a tad
wife would die if they were associated
with these stay-at-home girlfriends.
Like those women are living in sin. like
they are not they do not belong in the
same
hemisphere. Yeah.
I So, okay. So, I'll I'll be honest.
I've been on a I've been on a roller
coaster of emotions here digging into
the world of I'm going to call it
traism. You have because like when I
when I first watched the videos I my
first thought was this is evil in some
way, shape or form. And the reason I
thought that is is because of I guess
like my indoctrination like what I've
seen in movies and things. So, it's
these videos, you know, it's a static
shot. It's a woman who's dressed
impeccably, but like rarely made up in a
kitchen. It has a stepwood stepford
wives vibe to it, you know? So, it's
like every morning
I try to make cereal for my children,
granola made from scratch. I pick the
almonds from the soil. And you watch
this and you're like, "Oh, this is evil.
This is the devil. This is But then when
I when I like, you know, like ballerina
farms and and I watched I watched a few
more videos. I watched a few more
videos. Then I was like, hm, do I hate
this idea? And I I I I'll tell you I'll
tell you where I'm coming from cuz I see
your your side already, Cristiana. I'm
not saying do I hate this idea or do I
like it as a man. I'm not saying that.
What what I mean is there were there was
something strangely
liberating in the idea of somebody just
living a simple life
where there are predetermined outcomes
or or expectations for what you need
because I don't know I like I I I have
this feeling often times in society
where I go you know in America I feel it
more than most countries
but I I don't know about you I hate the
fact that we don't know how much we're
supposed to do and sort of what we're
supposed to do.
You mean the rat race? Yes, it's the
right race. How much money do we need?
Okay. How much success do you need? When
is it done? When is it achieved? When is
it finished? Are you successful? Oh, you
didn't get your masters. Oh, you didn't
get your PhD. Oh, this is the only house
you've stayed in. This is your only car.
This is the only vacation. Like, when
does it end? And when I was watching
these videos, there was a simplistic
completion that that I enjoyed about
them where it was like, all you have to
do
is wake up every day.
All
No, no, no. I'm saying this is what I
mean. What I mean is, I'm not saying
it's easy, but it's not infinite. It's
all
But it is infinite because there's
always more kids.
There is. And cuz
there isn't always more kids.
There is. Cuz then you become a trad.
The labor never stops. You This is the
thing. Okay, now I'm jumping ahead. Now,
now I'm revealing myself. Trad wives
never get to retire.
That's the thing that breaks my heart
about the role cuz it's a beautiful
role.
Okay. But your husband who goes off to
work in the world, there's a day he's
going to have his retirement. And the
expectation is you get to play golf.
You get to see your friends more. Maybe
you're on a board somewhere. A trad wife
is still going to have to have three
meals on the table every day. She's
going to have to look after the
grandchildren. Okay.
She's going to have to look after
whoever.
Wait, wait, wait. But if she's looking
after the grandchildren, who's looking
after the children? Maybe. I don't
understand the
children have the Well,
cuz you guys are clearly on like like
the final stages. You guys are like
spoiler alerting me. I know.
I'm on season one of tradife.
In season six, there's different options
for a trad wife. There is the tradife to
divorce pipeline where you lose because
you can no longer have children or your
husband's left interested. A lot of
tradives, honestly, are starter wives,
even in very Christian circles. The man
looks at her and he's like,
I have nothing to speak to you about
because you're with kids all day and I'm
in the world as an adult. And you know,
adult socialization is important,
Trevor. You know, you get to have
certain types of conversations. And this
woman has spent the last 15 to 18 years
raising children. And he feels she
limits her or maybe her body is broken
down because that's what children do to
your body because they're  evil.
And um
10 children. 10 children.
10 children. They've had so many
children. Does something to your body
and they say,
you know, I I need a new wife or maybe
she dies like, you know what I mean?
This is a real life in Africa. You see
it all the time and the woman dies or
the woman's gone and he's found someone
else. But what this woman has done,
which is an incredible thing, take care
of the home for like 18 years,
you can't put that on your resume.
So if you go into Amazon warehouses all
over this country, it's full of women
who embodied trad ideals, whether in a
secular or Christian way, and they now
have to fend for themselves, make
minimum wage, they have no retirement,
they have no 401ks, and they are like
having to what? So I'm saying this,
that's one outcome.
I'm going to challenge both of you on
this, and this is me playing a little
bit of devil's advocate. I know I'm the
only guy in the conversation. So, my job
is also to like spice things up, but but
I talk to many men, old men, who will
say the phrase to me all the time. They
be like, "Trevor, let me tell you
something. Happy wife, happy life." You
make sure your wife is happy. And she
says something and you say, "Yes, love.
Yes, darling. What else do you need,
honey? And your life will be smooth."
And some of those guys, to be honest
with you, are like tread husbandy.
Right. Like the way they live their life
is they go, I wake up, I make sure the
family's up as well, we we have
breakfast, I kiss everybody goodbye, I
go to the office, I work my ass off, you
know, I I come back home and and then I
I smile and I have dinner with everyone
and then I go to bed and I do it again
and they tell me where they want to go
on vacation. They tell me what they want
to eat on Friday night and that's all my
job is is. And I go, isn't that like you
you know what I mean? An after you.
Well, well, first I just want to
differentiate between
stay-at-home mom or stay at home parent
and the ideology at work with the the
most
the with a lot of these women, which is
that they they really believe they
really believe
that women should not have power, right?
That women should not be educated.
Like they really believe this, right?
They don't have that in the posts. Okay.
It's no that's not as explicit, right?
like project 2025
absolutely on board with that like their
their larger goal is control over
women's lives and their bodies. And so
that's when like when I because I think
sometimes we get into this game of like
if you're a feminist then you shouldn't
critique any other woman's choices. But
these women and I'm talking specifically
about the ones who are very much
invested in this evangelical version of
real tread real tread is what you're
saying. Okay.
They believe in a larger project in
which all women's rights are subsumed
under the will of men.
Ah okay. Okay.
This is where like the ideological
specificity becomes important because
there are some of these women who grow
up in the church and get married or
convert to Christianity. they they
become part of the church at a slightly
later age. Education is frowned upon. So
maybe you go to a little bit of Bible
college, but probably don't. You get
married as soon as possible so that you
can have sex, right? Because you do not
want to have sex outside of marriage,
right?
And then you become pregnant as you
become pregnant as soon as possible.
And so a lot of these women have
incredibly
little in terms of formal education. And
if they were themselves educated in a
traditional home, they were likely
homeschooled and did not have a great
foundation. I'm not saying homeschooling
creates bad education simply because
it's home homeschooling. A lot of these
curriculum practiced in these homes is
almost like I've heard wwives who've
left that lifestyle call it a form of
educational abuse, right? Because they
learn so little and it equips them so
poorly.
So let me let me ask you this then. you,
what you've just described to me now
sounds cultish. It sounds oppressive. It
sounds terrible.
This is not what I see on my feed. Like
my feed, it looks sexy. It looks fun. It
looks um rewarding. It looks engaging.
So,
help me understand this. How did
something cuz if you if you just sold
that to me now, no one would buy it.
How why is that trending now? Like why
is that huge on
Tik Tok is like now we're talking about
today, you know? This is not like a
Facebook trend. Tik Tok.
Do people not know or do they not care?
I And I I have so many thoughts on this,
but as a millennial woman who has a lot
of friends who have chosen to be
stay-at-home moms who are super
progressive, very educated,
the workplace is really hard. People are
burnt out. So I I speak to friends and
they're like why why work for 10 men 10
men when I can work for one
you know and I can
right well and you're only making enough
to cover childare right so like the the
calculus the calculus is broken so here
you are making barely enough you're
still you're behind you're behind in the
workplace in part because you know the
pay gap and all of the sorts of like
various discrimination that happens in
the workplace but also because you took
maternity leave, which puts you
backwards in the work clock for various
reasons. And I think that like Gen Z, I
mean, Gen Z loves to raz millennials.
But I think one of the things they see
when they look at millennials is like,
oh, they're trying to have it all. Or
like millennial feminists are trying to
figure out how can I be a great mom, a
great parent, a great partner, and like
a really like have a career that I like,
and it's impossible. So what is your
choice? I think this is where you get
almost like this reactionary move. And I
don't think that if a Gen Z person is
watching this on TikTok, it means that
they necessarily have conservative
politics, right? It's more that the
choices laid out for them seem like they
suck.
I mean, I I I get all of So, okay, let
me let me let's take a step back and let
me ask you this then as a question and
like help me understand. Is is being a
trad wife problematic in and of itself
or is is being a tradife problematic
when you live in a society where
capitalism will def define your endgame
or your outcome on the other side? So,
if we lived in a world where you didn't
have to worry about like surviving on
the other side, I is being a trad wife
bad like like you know I I I I read um
you know your writing and one of my
favorite articles of yours was was the
L1 where they asked you to be a trad
wife for a week and forgive me because I
guess maybe I've never done this. I
couldn't believe that you were like I
can't do it. I was like a week this
doesn't seem difficult for a week. All
you have to do for a week is like serve
someone and just like
No, no, no. And just
Okay. Well, my editor was like, "Yeah,
try it out for a week." I was like, "Oh,
yeah. This will be fun." And then as I
sat down to like figure out how to do
it, I was like, first of all, I really
can't lose a week of income. Like,
that's not that's not it's something I'm
willing to do for this. Like, I would
lose money writing this story for El
Magazine. And the other thing is I
talked to my partner. I'm not married,
so I'd be a bad tradife in the
beginning, right? Like I'd be a living
in sin partner. And he was like, "This
makes me feel uncomfortable."
Huh.
Right. So that's the other part of the
story is that I think some men don't
want to be served in this way. You know,
like I cook a lot of the food, not all
of it, but I I do some of it. I mean,
like a lot of families like we're always
in the struggle to split the mental
load, but I don't know. I just like we
couldn't get on board and it turned out
to be more interesting to write about
like not being able to do it.
We're going to continue this
conversation right after this short
break.
Okay? Cuz when I was going through it,
I'm not going to lie, I was like, "This
is a little sexy." It seemed No, I'll
tell you why. It seemed to me like
people were like living out some sort of
fetish vibe.
Totally. There's an element of that.
No. So, it felt like it was like
I mean, they have like 10 kids, so they
are having sex.
Exactly. And And it was also the the
But they're having sex like we're
talking about like the old f like
they're having sex anytime the man wants
it. And some of this is
coerc you're selling this to Trevor
right now. this this we we and you
really
No, no, no. You you actually aren't. And
I'll I'll tell you why on that on that
element why that doesn't that doesn't um
that doesn't appeal to me as much
because I think one of the problems we
have in modern relationships and in
society is this lopsided, you know,
appetite for sex. I think I think I
think sex in a relationship works best
when both parties get to want it when
they want it cuz the spark needs to come
from both sides. So I actually don't
like that trad you described.
Part of why he does that is the
expectation anytime I do want to have
sex with this woman, she's going to have
sex with
No, no, no. I think I think those guys
that's that's why this is interesting
what you're saying is and I think we
need to drill down on this because
to your point I think some people see
this as let's say the sexy version where
it's like
he tells me what he wants and I do it.
He says I want your hair like this and I
wear it. And when you're listening to
that, you're like, "Yeah, it's a little
50 shades. I'm I'm down for this. This
sounds cool." But it sounds voluntary.
And now what you're telling me is
the real like the real not the gloss,
not the stuff we see online, ironically
because they aren't online.
Is like they're like, "No, you do not
have a right to say no to your man. You
do not you should not tell him you don't
want to do something. You you have no
control over yourself." That's
essentially what you're saying real the
real culture is.
There's the idea like, "Oh, this is all
a choice, right? and so I should
critique it and it's okay and of course
that's what they're going to show on Tik
Tok and on Instagram.
Um and of course they're like they see
this and this is where the contradiction
you know that the you two were talking
about before I came on of like they're
not supposed to work but they're
monetizing their feeds. They see this as
ministry,
right? They want to sell this vision to
as many people as possible. So to them
it is not at all at odds.
Yeah. And you know, when you mention
that them seeing it as ministry, I think
it's interesting for me because
my father's a pastor, so I'm in a very
religious bubble. I was talking earlier
to the guys about the fact I tithed
until very recently. My dad is going to
lose his mind if he
and now I like tithe to causes. And
anyway, the whole thing, but I know that
world of evangelical Christianity and
Pentecostalism and you know, faith
without works is dead. So I can
understand why a woman is like I am
going to evangelize through making sour
dough from scratch. On the other side
because of the life I live now a lot of
the women I'm around are very secular
and in many ways very progressive. But
then it's also in the world you meet a
woman said yeah I was like a partner at
a law firm and I had my second baby and
I said I'm not doing that anymore. What
do you say to that? Because that's not a
neutral choice but it's a choice she's
had to make for her betterment. And I
think that's my my personal struggle
with it.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, why do you think
it's everywhere right now? I think that
it it touches on something like
something we're trying to figure out
about the place of feminism, the place
of like
everything to do with like JD Vance of
it all. Like
I mean, I think white liberal feminism
has failed like as an ideological No, as
an idea,
they can't even abortions which is like
the which is like a right that people
got like 50 60 like if you go to most
western countries white liberal American
feminism is a failure it hasn't it
hasn't got women maternity leave women
cannot have abortions across this
country if they want like
the pay gap seems to be intensifying
like feminism was supposed to have an
answer to all of these questions and it
it it as an ideological project it
failed like it's not like this cohesive
block whereas if you go to France or the
UK Hey, there is a lot more unity among
the idea of feminism because they've
safeguarded just like basic feminist
rights. Well, well, maybe maybe then
that's that's part of the question or or
like an an interesting aspect of the
puzzle here is,
you know, when you when you're saying an
why is it so popular? You know,
obviously I can't speak for any women in
this, but if I if I just try and put
myself in somebody else's shoes, I do
think there's an element of
this, even if it's even if a lot of it
is fake, I think there's an element of
this trad wife movement that's like
celebrating a form of femininity that
has been sort of like lost in the in the
demonized.
Yeah. In the feminine fight. And then
this is giving people just a little a
little enclave where they can say
actually I I do want to spend time with
my kids. I do want to I and you know
sometimes this happens in life. Um I
don't know if you've experienced this in
a relationship, in a friendship or even
in a general interaction. Sometimes
sometimes I almost feel like it becomes
easier for people to adopt an extreme
ideology
only because they want aspects of it. So
now there's a woman out there who goes,
"Look, I I don't not want to work and I
don't want but it's easier for me to say
and be a trad wife because then no one
can sort of like judge me out of this
cuz I'm not a feminist who's doing it
wrong. I'm just a tradife who's trying."
Do you think it gives women the space to
explore all sides of being a woman or do
you think like you know this this this
modern feminism has become about like no
if you don't do it like this then you
are not
an I want to hear from you first. You
know, I don't know if I would I would
frame it in terms of feminism. I would
frame it more in terms of society that
society doesn't give especially American
society does not give a lot of space to
figure out different ways of being a
woman with safety, right? So, if you're
looking at different ways you can go
through the world, go through society
today,
and let's say you had something like you
grew up in a precarious situation for
some reason, right? What what looks most
safe to you? Is it going to be, oh,
someone else makes all the decisions and
brings in all of the money
and navigates the outside world and then
I just get to like make some decisions
about things that I care about or I'm
going to figure this all out alone with
no social safety net and no economic
safety net. So I think that like that's
if you're looking at the world around
you, it's easy often times, especially
given your situation, to choose
something that seems safe, that seems
like a path forward. And patriarchy feel
can feel very inviting when dressed up
this way. You know,
it's so interesting you say that an cuz
I thought a lot about the fact that gi
given my religious upbringing, you know,
given elements of my own faith, um why
I'm not a tread wife, apart from the
fact that I've got a slick mouth and
so wait, so tread wife, you're not
allowed to have like what a vibe.
No, no vibe.
You can't be you can't you better go
bake bread.
Okay, but what about
and be timid and No, but that it's part
of that like godliness and timidity and
humility. I'm never humble.
Wait, but is this Yeah, but being
Nigerian, you can't be
I Exactly.
So, so what I'm saying is Yeah, but but
can you like can trad wives are they can
they be like sort of balling out living
their lives when the man's not around?
No. Cuz you want do you want to model
for your sons? This is the idealized
womanhood. And you also want to model
for your daughters this trait of
meekness, right?
And I've never never been meek. And it
was always interesting to me to be in
like a black majority church where these
women were actually being that for their
husbands but like in their nature they
weren't. These are Ghanaian Nigerian and
Jamaican women like we ain't meek.
Um and I the reason I think that you we
are seeing that like someone like Nara
Smith biracial you know biracial black
girl with a white man and she makes food
from scratch. They recently did a GQ
photo shoot that was very 1950s
inspired, but they they're like gorgeous
people. They've got this these gorgeous
children with like multi-racial curly
hair, you know. I think it embodies a
lot of like future America. And the
important thing about her is that she's
Gen Z. She's 22 years old.
That woman is 22.
She is 22 years old
or maybe 23. She has three kids. She has
three kids.
Wow.
Anyways, we're seeing this movement
become increasingly diversified. I know
a lot of black women who are into the
femininity movement who are like, I'm
embracing my divine feminine and my soft
life so I can find this man out there to
take care of me. And as much as I was
like I was never going to be with a man
that couldn't take care of himself cuz
I'm very in that way. The message I was
told growing up implicitly by the women
around me was like have children because
men are not safe. Your your children
will always be there and man will leave
you. And I think that's deeply in the
I'd say the West African psyche of like
retreating to the home
is not safe for you because a man may
beat you or a man may assault you or a
man can just I come from a polygamous
family. My grandfather had 18 wives. A
man will get another wife. Right? So the
I say in a West African context being a
complete tradife is being a woman who is
not safe. Whereas I can see why in
America the domestic sphere can become
something that is safe because America
is such a capitalist.
But this this is what I mean. Okay. So
let me okay let me ask you both this
because you know and reading your story
of like triing trism
you were you were allergic to it on all
levels. One of the big ones was money.
So then let me ask you both this. Let's
say we took money completely off the
table forever. You you would be fine.
There is no issue whatsoever.
Dropped. I love money so much.
No but forget it. Money's out of the
there's no money. Don't worry about
money anymore. Don't worry about money.
Okay. We live in a moneyless world.
Does being a trad wife become more
attractive to you now?
No. Not for me.
Okay. So, not for you. Still no. I'm
just going to keep throwing things out
and then I I want to see where I get
you.
Cuz I don't want to lose power.
Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. So,
so money, no problem. Still no for you
and no for you. Well, but so like then
all I would just do all day would be
doing stuff for the home that also
served my partner. Like I would be okay
with it if I could just like garden.
Like I could do stuff that I wanted to
do.
No, no, no, no, no. You're not
understanding. I I now see why you would
be a bad tread wife. You're not you're
not you're not listening to my commands
here and I'm saying you're tasked with
everything, but you don't ever have to
worry about money. And I mean ever. Even
if the man disappears, the state or the
entity will look after you. So
Cristiano, you're not in.
No.
No. Okay. Okay. Okay. It's about the
safety, but it's also about like
Is it the dresses? What if I said no
dresses?
No. I want the dresses. That's the
That's the part that's Oh, you like the
dresses.
Oh, I love the dresses.
Oh, jeez. Okay. So, it's not the
clothes.
Not the clothes. I'm
I'm trying to understand what you know.
It's children.
I cannot be with my children all day.
I love them dearly.
You make children. I know, but I don't
want to be around them all the time.
Especially my own wife.
Most people don't. Most people don't. I
don't even think these wives want to be
around their children.
Wait, wait, before you Before you say
that, let me pitch you. So, now here's
where I'm going to pitch you something
else cuz I'm I'm I'm truly trying to
like think of how to get this back into
society. But I think one of the biggest
things we're struggling with now in
society, and we we have been for a
while,
is our village is shrinking,
right? And I think humans need a village
more than anything else, right? And as
the village shrinks, people struggle to
find ways to connect. So what if what if
I traded with you? What if I said,
"Okay, tread is still on the table, but
now you would be in a village. So your
kids wouldn't always be your kids alone.
You would be in the village. There would
be other tread wives around. The kids
are running around doing their thing."
Am I Am I getting any bias here? No,
because I I actually like using my
intellect. I like the idea of like my
home should be my retreat because video
games.
But you know, Trevor,
I'm I'm just
Have you played video? Video games are
complicated.
So bad.
Video games, that's a lot of intellect
that's required.
No, I just still I just feel that like
if by becoming a tradife, the domestic
space also becomes your work space,
And for me right now in my home, as much
as my kids exhaust me,
Yes. I get to go home and we have a
break from each other and we have this
okay this is the reset and we start
again
and I love that I get to do this this is
a job it's it's with a friend so it
doesn't feel like a job so I feel like
I'm cheating but I get to have
conversations like this speak to you an
write and use my mind in a way that I
think is important just for like I don't
know Maslo's hierarchy of needs just
like higher state of development and
consciousness and just using this thing
we call our brain
and I think that's important and I I do
feel Like all my friends that are
tradives/st stay at home mothers, they
talk about like the mundanity and how
it's so repetitive and how they do miss
the little interactions that you would
have in an office like when you're going
out to make coffee or like just the
things that I think make an adult human
an adult human.
People miss the office affairs. I see I
see what you're saying.
I'm not stealing the office copy paper,
you know, it's like these different
things that we do. And
losing that, I think I would it would be
it's a big part of my identity and then
my identity would just be subsumed into
being Louis's wife and the mother of my
children and then
someone's daughter or someone's sister
and then what about that big other part
of ourselves? Imagine you couldn't do
comedy Trevor and look after the kids
all day.
I understand this, you know. No, now
that's what that's why I'm digging
because what what what I've been trying
to understand in this is
not what the bad side of it is. Let's
let's let's for a moment put aside, you
know, people being oppressed or not
having their freedoms. What I what I
struggle to find even in the article and
was is like I was trying to understand
like what your allergic reaction to it
was. But to what Cristiana is saying
now, do do you share the sentiment or
was there something in addition to that
that you thought to yourself by doing
this I'm giving up X? Um, well, you
know, being a nanny for infants is what
actually convinced me that I shouldn't
be a parent. Like, I love kids. I don't
want to be them all around all the time.
And it was like I I know that it's
different when it's your own kid, but
like it gave me such a taste of how
mundane the day can be when you have
absolutely no one to talk to except for
a six-month-old, right? Like, it's just
you. And this was in a wealthy
community, like just me walking down the
street waving at other nannies, right?
Um, and hanging out with a
six-month-old. But I think that for me,
so much of it is about like that fear of
not having a future, and this is
something we've this has been a
recurring thing in our conversation,
right? Is like what happens when the man
leaves, right? Like where is your life
raft?
If you've never had a chance to make it.
And then the other thing that I keep
thinking about is if we flip this on you
and we're like, "Do you want to cook all
the food and take care of the babies?"
It's like some men I know would say,
"Yeah, I want to do all that stuff." But
they also still have the benefit of
living in a society where they are
praised immeasurably for that work and
for that decision and where they still
have all of the power. So like that it
it's almost like an unfair thought
experiment because we can't even flip it
around and be like, "Well, would you
like that?" You're like, "Yeah, I would
love to live in a society where I get to
do the caregiving that I want but still
have all the power."
Don't go anywhere cuz we got more what
now after this.
I wonder if the trad wives we don't see
online
are pissed off at the trad wives that we
do see online only because one of the
elements that both of you have mentioned
and I've I've actually heard a lot of
people speak about is the lack of
outside interaction is the lack of
outside connection is the lack of just
expanding your mind and so I wonder if
like OG treadwives
are a little bit pissed off at these
like internet tread wives because
they're Like, no, you're interacting
with people online all day. You're
you're not living the tread. It's it's
like these um Have you ever followed
these like Tik Toks where people live
off the grid and they they're like, "I
live by myself. I'm in a I'm in a forest
and I make my food. I don't talk to
people. I don't I but they're on a live
telling people this and they're
responding to people." You know what I
mean?
And I'm like, "But you're not living the
life."
By by by virtue of the fact that you are
displaying it, you are not living the
life. And so I like I don't know because
you you've written so much about it and
you've interviewed so many people about
it. Is there like a an inner conflict
within the TRD movement where they're
like these people are fake TRD or do
they look at them as missionaries where
they go no they're necessary to spread
our movement?
Well, I think that some on like the far
extreme side of the spectrum would
definitely say that some of those cute
dresses are way too revealing.
Oh,
but then like I don't know. Well, I
think a lot of women aren't at all
aware. Like, if you're really deep in
this stuff, you're not you don't have a
Tik Tok account.
You're not watching this, right? Like,
you don't have that exposure because
your husband wouldn't let you have even
that sort of freedom.
Okay. Wait, wait, wait. So, now wait,
wait. So, now let's let's go to that
is is the truest expression of a trad
wife the fact that you are not opting
into it? Cuz you see, it's interesting
that you just said your husband wouldn't
let you. So, are like real real real
trades not choosing to be trades or can
you choose to be somebody who is
oppressed? I know it seems like a
paradox, but can you?
It's interesting cuz and and maybe you
have a different perspective on this cuz
I I come from more of like a black
Pentecostal
um evangelical circles and there is a
degree of indoctrination like just
purity culture. You're not supposed to
have sex before your marriage. Save
yourself for your husband. you know,
even if you're going to university or
college is to be a good wife or
whichever man will marry you. And
like anything in society, you can opt
out even though you'd become a
backslider,
right? And I think the duggers are a
great example because you see the whole
spectrum. You have like some duggers
girls who are like, I'm going to wear
trousers and I'm going to show my arms.
I married someone, but I'm not like my
other sisters who do it in that way. So
I'd say as much as these women are quote
unquote indoctrinated, oppressed, there
is still an element of choice and some
people choice choose it more than
others. I think there are some women who
way more zealot. The one who would never
have Tik Tok or even ask her husband to
have
Tik Tok. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And there is like the ballerina farms
with the contradictions who are dipping
their toeing it and ministering. But
when you're kind of doing a purette in
this gorgeous kitchen, it shows that you
still have a longing for the career of a
ballerina. Like do you know what I mean?
So So there's stuff going on there. It's
like you are not as far as zeal as
zealous as the other girls that have
been quote unquote indoctrinated in this
Yeah. And it's contradictory.
And then there's women like myself who
are like I'm going to marry an atheist
and be on a podcast with a comedian who
has a very devilish job.
My mom is always praying that Trevor
finds Jesus. Right. That's this is an
ongoing thing.
What do you mean? You must tell your mom
Jesus is who brought me here. What are
you talking about?
But she she should start a church. She's
like, he just I just see him being a
pastor.
He's a youth youth pastor.
Youth pastor treasure. He's like he's a
man of God, but like
you know it but then still has some of
the pushes and pulls the tensions of it
cuz I'm like am I being a I think I'm
like I don't take these kids to church
enough or whatever it is. So you can opt
out but I think the indoctrination is
there but I don't think it's fair to act
like these women have no choices at all.
They do have choices. the ones that
we're seeing in particular,
the ones we're seeing in particular,
they do have choices. Even the choices
are limited, they are making choices,
but they're also indoctrinated. It's
many things at once, I feel. And I'm I'm
I'm curious to hear from you.
H there's so many things to talk about
here, but I think that some of them
have witnessed examples made of women
who leave their entire lives, right? if
you left, if you weren't enough a part
of the church, like you're a fallen
woman. And the way that those women are
narrativized in the stories that they
hear in their church, in their homes,
like it's the end of your life. It's
it's not just a spiritual death. It is a
like you're over.
And so that is like do you actually have
a choice? You're like either I'm going
to risk everything or I'm going to
follow this path.
I think there's also a risk that happens
when people like us from the outside are
like, "Oh, these women think that
they're choosing, but they're not
choosing."
It's you're giving them this sort of
false consciousness, which is very, I
think,
demeaning, right? Like it's saying that
they don't they don't actually know,
have any awareness of the world. But
man, a lot of the women are the ones
leading the charge with this. M
they're the ones who are encouraging
their husbands to become, you know, to
go deeper into the tad like funnel,
right? And it's because they see it as
the route to their salvation. But I also
think it's like more and more safety,
right? Like it's that's a choice that I
have to make, right?
And I I do you know, it's so funny cuz I
speak to my friends about this about
like the matriarchs being the ones that
policed what we would wear the most. It
was never an is
being like why are you wearing that?
I think it's a complicated loop. You
know, in the same way that black parents
will often times beat their children
more than most cops would ever because
they're going, if you do not follow the
letter of the law, these people, the law
will come down and take you away from
me. It will end your life. I need to
brutalize you so that you do not get
brutalized by somebody who does not care
for you. In a weird way, I sometimes
think that it might be the same thing
with these societies is that these women
are not going, "How dare you wear that?"
Sort of from my perspective. They're
going like, "How dare you endanger
yourself?
How dare you? How dare you walk around
with a skirt that short? Do you know
what that says to those men? Do you know
where that puts you? Do you understand
the position that you're now in? How
dare you?" In a in a strange way, it's
sometimes it feels to me like the people
who are trapped in the system are trying
to protect the other ones from the
harshest elements of that system.
I think that's very No, that's a really
compassionate take. I've always felt
that the foot soldiers of patriarchy
have to be women cuz women nurture and
raise children. It's not the men.
So, like it has to be women.
Okay. Okay. Okay, so let me let me throw
something at you here. And this this is
really just for thought exercise.
But
what if the Tread movement turned around
and said to you,
"No, you have been brainwashed.
You have been brainwashed into thinking
that a woman's role is to be in an
office and a woman's role is to be in a
factory." And they're like, "This is not
what a woman does. every month your body
releases eggs for a purpose and if you
do not then your body responds
accordingly. And so they go like, "No,
you've been indoctrinated. You've been
tricked into thinking that your role is
outside of the house." And then they may
even turn around and say to you, "Look
at how much strife and turmoil you have.
Look at how stressed you are. Look at
how you struggle to have children and
and and look at how hard your life is."
If they say that to you, do you is there
even a part of you that goes like what
if?
Well, I think first of all they do say
that explicitly like there there is
messaging that like feminism has
brainwashed you and feminism is the work
of the devil. Like the devil is winning
and I don't ever attribute any of my
misery to feminism or the idea that like
women have rights, right? I'm not
talking about white feminism
specifically, but like the idea that
women should have rights in society. I
attribute it to the way that our
government works, right? The way that
humans sometimes function, the way that
we have difficulties thinking in terms
of long-term planning, um our addiction,
particularly in America, to
individualism. Like those are the things
that come to mind. Never like, oh, I was
sold down the river by like the right to
vote.
You know,
I mean, voting is stressful. You have to
admit it's a stressful, you don't you
know what I mean?
Not in Washington state. I get the
envelope in the mail. Just check the
little box.
Let me Okay, let me let me ask you this
on a on a on a political level. You
know, at the beginning of the
conversation, you said there's a reason
this is bubbling up now more than ever.
And and and it's true. I'm assuming trad
culture didn't start yesterday. I'm
assuming it it's been around for a
while. I'm assuming it will be around
for a while, but the trend has really
gotten steam. The trend is really moving
in a certain way. And I'd love to know
as somebody who, you know, obviously
works in this space, but explores many
others.
How do you think they tie into each
other? Like what is the seduction that
they're using to to bring people in?
Like why is that resonating with anyone?
The idea of what is a real woman or we
need to go back to the way women were.
Why is that connecting? You know, if
it's not true at all or or is some of it
true?
I think women are exhausted
and I think that that is only become
more true in the wake of the pandemic.
So there's new research out that I saw
in the New York Times recently about
like looking at, you know, two years on
from CO isolation and and kids being
home during like especially that first
year of CO on who took on the primary
care in two parent homes with separate
genders and like the women, right? Like
just the bulk the incredible bulk of
care and then that
fatigue just continued on. there was
never any recovery and so they had
people developed caregiving burnout but
also work burnout like all all of these
things together and then we just never
had any sort of way of coping with any
of that. If anything, parenting norms
have become even more intense in the
last four years, especially as people
have anxiety over like learning loss
that aren't actually real, right? So,
like everything all the time.
And maybe you thought that like, oh,
when my kid gets a little older, it'll
be a little easier and it's not, right?
Like there's still all these anxieties
about screen time and safety and just
everything. And so if you're dealing
with that every day, just peak of
exhaustion and the only thing that you
can do when you're that tired, the only
thing that you can like find muster the
energy to do is either watch some
Netflix or lay on your bed and watch Tik
Tok, what's going to catch your eye? And
you know the way that the algorithms
work,
as you know, right? Like you watch some
of something and it gives you more of
that thing.
So that's part of it. And it's not
so much like I don't want to have
rights. It's this way is clearly not
working.
What what other options do I have?
Because like the government is not going
to change anytime soon because of the
way that it's organized in this country.
like we are still going to have people
in power who believe that offering
affordable child care
is like encourages women to work outside
of the home and thus we should not have
affordable childare
right so if you can't beat them join
them
it's it's funny you talk about the
trends and what they actually say about
society you know I I I think it's um is
it Gab Mate the the writer who says he
always talks about how when dealing with
addiction, he says like don't focus on
the thing that you're craving, focus on
the pain that the addiction is covering.
Do do you know what I mean? And in a
way, I think that with society as well.
I think to myself,
often times we'll focus on the trend.
We'll focus on what people are
gravitating towards. We don't focus on
the pain that that is covering. You
know, the trades, I think you just
eloquently laid it out. We don't ask
ourselves why it's becoming more
popular. There's a lot of people going
like, "Yeah, well, wow, that sounds
nice." To have a home, just even start
with that.
The idea of having a home, having a
kitchen, cuz I've never seen one trad
wife go, "Hey, today I wanted to make
chicken wings, but uh the price of
chicken's gone up, so uh we're just
going to do like carrot sticks fried."
No, they they never there's not a single
Tradife video that I watched that
addresses scarcity or tough times in
some way, shape, or form.
Yeah. Abundance. True. It's abundance.
And so I I that's that's yeah like I I I
think
when when we look at that it's it's you
know it's interesting to think of it as
a you know as an indicator of where
society is as opposed to is it good or
is it bad.
It's just an expression of women's
exhaustion. Yeah.
And this capitalist hellscape.
Well I I do think that some women like
this is something that's been going on
for like 10 15 years is the return to
like crafting.
um like fiber arts and like domestic
arts for lack of a better word, what we
used to like teach as home like those
things people like doing them. They are
rewarding. It is fun to make things with
your hands whether it's something
like a piece of wood or gardening or
whatever. Like I do think that and we
know we hear about this a lot because I
think a lot of millennials who
like worked their butts off throughout
their 20s and 30s are like okay do I
have any hobbies? Do I have a
personality? What do I like to do?
And figuring that out. So, I do think
that there are ways of dabbling that
aren't
full, you know, submission to the
patriarchy. Like, there's a halfway.
Can I tell you guys a little secret on
behalf of the patriarchy? Um, men are
also exhausted.
And I I think sometimes I I don't know.
Sometimes I fi find myself feeling like
we're all playing like a game and and it
almost it almost makes me wonder like
okay well if everyone is experiencing
this oppressive force who's applying the
force
capitalism
I didn't want to say it. I didn't want
to say it but like
cuz you know who's not complaining about
it? Companies. I don't know if you know
this. Companies are never exhausted.
Companies are never like h yes we're
having a tough time. We're so tired.
We've decided to stop being a company
for a while and just take a break. Just
being, oh, we oh, we've been listed for
50 years and it's time to take a break.
We're So, you're not wrong. Companies
are the only entities that are not
tired.
Well, I think it brings me back to our
conversation previously about abundance,
right? And part of the allure of what
they represent is abundance, right? And
we have abundance on this planet. We
have more than enough for everyone.
But capitalism makes it so that that
abundance is not
Oh yeah. You have to create the
scarcity. Yes.
Right. So there's scarcity for for
nearly everyone. And so but if you
created abundance, right? If you created
a scenario where you could care and
share that caregiving, right, in the
village that we all crave,
you could hang out with friends because
you weren't constantly exhausted from
the dual tasks of parenting and working
your job because you're terrified of
getting laid off and losing your
healthcare. If you could also dabble in
various intellectual endeavors, you
could be you could have hobbies that you
were bad at, right? like you could be a
parent and a person at the same time
and that was facilitated by the spread
of all of this abundance we have on a
global level. Like that's a way of being
in the world, right? We don't have to
fetishize it. We don't have to hold it
behind a locked door that's available
only if you buy into these other ideas.
I mean, maybe someday.
Maybe some But for now, crowding is the
way. No,
wait. Did I Did I learn the wrong lesson
from all of this? Oh, I I thought you
were saying for now we all,
this has been so much fun. Thank you so
much for joining us.
Thank you, Anne.
What now with Trevor Noah is produced by
Spotify Studios in partnership with Day
Zero Productions. The show is executive
produced by Trevor Noah Saz Yamin and
Jod Avagan. Our senior producer is Jess
Hackle. Claire Slaughter is our
producer. Music mixing and mastering by
Hannis Brown. Thank you so much for
listening. Join me next Thursday for
another episode of What Now?
